FULL STACK DEVELOPMENT – WORKSHEET 5 SOLUTIONS 
Q1. 
O/P : abcd abc false 
 abcd abcd true 
 s1 and s2 are reference variables of string literals whic gets stored in string constant pool, where 
as sb1 and sb2 are reference variables of object created in heap memory. 
For s1 string "abc" is created in string pool (only if that string does not exist already) and its reference 
is passed , but for s2 only the reference is passed and no new string instance is created. 
when we modify s1, a new string "abcd" is created in the string pool and its reference is passed to s1 and 
s2 will store reference of "abc". so s1 = "abcd" and s2="abc" 
For sb1 a new string object is created in heap memory and its reference is stored. Incase of sb2 the 
reference variable sb1 is copied and sb2 also refers to the same object. 
When we modify that object through one reference variable it gets reflected in all references as we point 
to the same object. so both sb1=sb2="abcd". 
The '==' operator will compare the memory and not values in case of objects. So it is false in case of s1 
and s2 and true in case of sb1 and sb2. 

Q2. 
O/P : String 
 In method overloading we have the same method names differentiated by number and type of 
arguments. 
As we are passing a null value in method call, the string is getting executed 

Q3. 
O/P: a 
 b 
 c 
 In inheritance the derived calss inherits the variables and methods of the base class. Here we are 
creating a base class object only but all the constructors are executed because creating a object of 
derived class will automatically call the constructor of its parent class. it works from top to bottom and 
so the base class constructor gets executed first. 

Q4. 
O/P: 4 
 The calc method is called with '2' as its parameter. In the calc function 'this.num' refers to the 
instance variable and num on the RHS refers to the parameter in the function. so 2*10 is assigned to the 
instance variable. 

Q5. 
O/P: 4 
 s1 and s2 are 2 different objects of String class. The append method will add "Love" to "Java" and
s1 will become "JavaLove". 
The indeof() method will return the index value of the given string, so the variable will have value 4 
which is the index of the word. 

Q6. 
O/P: writing book 
 If base class reference is created for derived class object then the derived class method will be 
called overriding the base class method. 
But here the methods are static and since static methods cannot be overridden the base class methos 
itself is called and the derived class method is hidden by base class method. 

Q7. 
O/P: Not equal 
 s1 and s2 are 2 different refences for two different objects created. eventhough the objects have 
the same content, the '== ' operator compares the memory and not the values. so the output is not 
equal. 

Q8. 
O/P: First statement of try block 
 15
 finally block 
 Main method 
 The try catch blocks in java is used to handle any exceptions, so that the program does not stop
hindering the execution of subsequent part of the program. 
As we do not have any exception in this case the try block gets executed and catch block is not executed. 
The finally block gets executed always,whether there is exception or not. 
Ater that the remaining part of the is getting executed. 

Q9. 
O/P: Constructor called 
 Constructor called 
 The static block gets executed before the execution of the main method. As an object is created 
in the static block the constructor gets executed. 
Another object is created in the main method, so the constructor is called again. 

Q10. 
O/P: Static Block1 
 Static Block2 
 value of num=100 
 value of mystr = constructor 
 The static block gets executed before the execution of the main method. The print statements in 
those blocks get executed. 
Next only the main method gets executed. The constructor is called during the object creation and so the 
values given in constructor is aasigned to the variables
